{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1845-1852: Irish Potato Famine\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chronology_of_the_Great_Famine"}}{\fldrslt https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chronology_of_the_Great_Famine}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Irish_Famine"}}{\fldrslt https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Irish_Famine}}\
\
1846: First Deaths from Hunger\
\
March 1846: Robert Peel sets up public works program\
July 1846: Relief works halted by Lord Russell\
	-Peel had just resigned on June 29th\
\
1848: Cholera Outbreaks accompany the return of the blight\
\
July 1848: Young Irelander Rebellion\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Young_Irelander_Rebellion_of_1848"}}{\fldrslt https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Young_Irelander_Rebellion_of_1848}}\
\
1850: Famine Ends\
\
185: Census released\
	-Drop of 1.6 million-flawed possibly\
	-Result: Famine left around 1 million dead, 1 million emigrated. \
	-Lasting Bitterness to the british govt. \
\
Killed 1 - 1.5 million people\
\
Bridget O'Donnel's story\
\
The Sketch of a Woman and Children represents Bridget O'Donnel. Her story is briefly this:-- '. . .we were put out last November; we owed some rent. I was at this time lying in fever. . . they commenced knocking down the house, and had half of it knocked down when two neighbours, women, Nell Spellesley and Kate How, carried me out. . . I was carried into a cabin, and lay there for eight days, when I had the creature (the child) born dead. I lay for three weeks after that. The whole of my family got the fever, and one boy thirteen years old died with want and with hunger while we were lying sick.\
}